Readme.md, before:

asciiwave: WaveDrom to ASCII art
================================

This utility reads WaveDrom JSON files like this:

```
{ signal: [
  { name: "clk",  wave: "P......" },
  { name: "bus",  wave: "x.==.=x", data: ["head", "body", "tail", "data"] },
  { name: "wire", wave: "0.1..0." }
]}
```

And produces ASCII art like this:

```
$ ./asciiwave example/step3.json
      ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  
clk : ┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──
      xxxxxxxxxxxx╱    ╲╱          ╲╱    ╲xxxxxx
bus : xxxxxxxxxxxx╲head╱╲   body   ╱╲tail╱xxxxxx
      ┐           ┌─────────────────┐           
wire: └───────────┘                 └───────────
```

WaveDrom would usually render a PNG or SVG like the below:

![](wavedrom_png_sample.png)

However, PNGs can not be pasted into comments in your HDL project!

asciiwave requires the `json5` library from PyPI, as a lot of WaveJSON samples floating around on the internet rely on non-vanilla-JSON features like unquoted keys, single-quoted strings and trailing commas. The `jsonschema` library is also required, for input validation. These can be obtained via:

```
$ pip3 install json5 jsonschema
```

WaveJSON Subset
---------------

asciiwave does not implement the full gamut of WaveJSON features. It supports:

- `wave` commands: `1hHu 0lLd pPnN =2345 zx |`
- The `hscale` config property: the width of each time unit is `hscale * 2 + 2` characters.
- The `period` signal property: this can be a floating point number. The width of each wave time unit is multiplied by `period` and rounded down.
- The `phase` signal property: this can be a floating point number. The signal is advanced (positive) or retarded (negative) by this number of periods.
- The `data` signal property: either an array of strings, or a single string containing whitespace-separated values.

Graphics
--------

asciiwave defines its graphics like this:

```
graphics = zip(
	" ┌─┐┏┓x_╱ ╲┆╭┄  ",
	"─┘ └┛┗x ╲ ╱┆  ╰┄"
)

state_map = dict(zip("0+1-rfxz< >|UuDd", graphics))
```

Changing the `graphics` variable will alter the output accordingly: for instance, if you can not use the Unicode box drawing characters. The height is not fixed at 2 lines; any positive number of lines will do. However each state must be exactly one character wide.

Commit message:

Add watch mode, tighten up validation

Readme.md, after:

asciiwave: WaveDrom to ASCII art
================================

This utility reads WaveDrom JSON files like this:

```
{ signal: [
  { name: "clk",  wave: "P......" },
  { name: "bus",  wave: "x.==.=x", data: ["head", "body", "tail", "data"] },
  { name: "wire", wave: "0.1..0." }
]}
```

And produces ASCII art like this:

```
$ ./asciiwave example/step3.json
      ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  ┏──┐  
clk : ┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──┛  └──
      xxxxxxxxxxxx╱    ╲╱          ╲╱    ╲xxxxxx
bus : xxxxxxxxxxxx╲head╱╲   body   ╱╲tail╱xxxxxx
      ┐           ┌─────────────────┐           
wire: └───────────┘                 └───────────
```

WaveDrom would usually render a PNG or SVG like the below:

![](wavedrom_png_sample.png)

However, PNGs can not be pasted into comments in your HDL project!

asciiwave requires the `json5` library from PyPI, as a lot of WaveJSON samples floating around on the internet rely on non-vanilla-JSON features like unquoted keys, single-quoted strings and trailing commas. The `jsonschema` library is also required, for input validation. These can be obtained via:

```
$ pip3 install json5 jsonschema
```

asciiwave features a watch mode (`-w`), which will continously poll a file on disk, and redraw whenever the
file changes. This can be used interactively alongside a text editor.


```
$ ./asciiwave --watch example/step4.json

             ┌──┐  ┌──┐  ┌──┐  ┌──┐  ┌──┐  ┌──┐  ┆┌──┐  ┌──┐  ┌──┐  
clk        : ┘  └──┘  └──┘  └──┘  └──┘  └──┘  └──┆┘  └──┘  └──┘  └──
             xxxxxxxxxxxx╱    ╲╱    ╲╱    ╲xxxxxx┆╱          ╲xxxxxx
Data       : xxxxxxxxxxxx╲head╱╲body╱╲tail╱xxxxxx┆╲   data   ╱xxxxxx
             ┐           ┌─────────────────┐     ┆┌───────────┐     
Request    : └───────────┘                 └─────┆┘           └─────

             ┌───────────────────────────────────┆┐     ┌───────────
Acknowledge: ┘                                   ┆└─────┘           

Watching file example/step4.json
Ctrl-C to exit
```

WaveJSON Subset
---------------

asciiwave does not implement the full gamut of WaveJSON features. It supports:

- `wave` commands: `1hHu 0lLd pPnN =2345 zx |`
- The `hscale` config property: the width of each time unit is `hscale * 2 + 2` characters.
- The `period` signal property: this can be a floating point number. The width of each wave time unit is multiplied by `period` and rounded down.
- The `phase` signal property: this can be a floating point number. The signal is advanced (positive) or retarded (negative) by this number of periods.
- The `data` signal property: either an array of strings, or a single string containing whitespace-separated values.

Graphics
--------

asciiwave defines its graphics like this:

```
graphics = zip(
	" ┌─┐┏┓x_╱ ╲┆╭┄  ",
	"─┘ └┛┗x ╲ ╱┆  ╰┄"
)

state_map = dict(zip("0+1-rfxz< >|UuDd", graphics))
```

Changing the `graphics` variable will alter the output accordingly: for instance, if you can not use the Unicode box drawing characters. The height is not fixed at 2 lines; any positive number of lines will do. However each state must be exactly one character wide.
